My name is David Black.
I'm a senior architect
in the Pro Apps team.
And we're here this morning to
talk to you about integrating your
applications with Final Cut Pro,
various technologies to basically
enable you to build tools that
complement Final Cut and combine a
number of tools together to build
interesting workflows for your customers.
We're going to talk about a number
of technologies this morning.
Of course, data interchange to push
data between applications,
some automation tools for Final Cut Pro,
leveraging metadata to
basically leave interesting
breadcrumbs in your media file,
and also a few hints for creating
and managing media that's compatible
with Final Cut and Final Cut Studio.
Start talking briefly about project
data interchange and really the
formats that you'll want to use here.
Now just to sort of set
some context for everyone,
sort of start with the question
of what project data is.
And really it's the glue that
ties everything together.
Especially in post-production, you know,
there's a lot of effort that
goes into shooting content,
getting video and audio and images,
but there's almost more work that
goes into sequencing those elements
together and combining the raw
pieces into a compelling product
to deliver to customers in the end.
So really, at the end of the day,
this is the data that your users
spend the most time creating.
Of course, with all that richness,
it makes that data traditionally
very difficult to exchange beyond
the most basic representations.
Sort of a little bit of
background and history here.
All this began probably 20,
30 years ago when you really
had hardware-based systems.
You think of a rack of tape decks
and a switcher controlling them,
timing together to lay
down a show to tape.
And there was interchange
between these systems,
and it really was basic.
You're basically looking
at a list of time codes,
clip IDs, all put in ASCII text files.
Really easy to move around,
really easy to read, but again,
not a whole lot of richness there.
Contemporary formats came about
in the 90s as nonlinear systems
made the jump to computers.
And while they were
great and they were rich,
owing partly to the complexity
and partly to the limitations
of the systems at the time,
they tended to be built around
binary container formats,
things that were efficient in size,
but rather difficult to parse,
especially if you didn't own the format.
Now we came at this back in the late 90s,
and we really wanted to take
a fresh look at the problem.
So we started by requesting feedback.
We talked to our customers,
and they gave us some
really logical points.
They wanted, you know,
really have common formats for data.
They wanted to get at the
contents of those projects.
They already had access to the media
files owing to the way we use QuickTime,
but they wanted to get
at that project data.
And they wanted to leverage it to
integrate Final Cut into existing and
new pipelines that we're building.
When we went to talk to developers,
we got much the same feedback, really.
You know,
they wanted to interchange data,
you know,
both with our tools and other tools.
They even wanted to bridge
tools with their code.
They wanted to write new
tools and extensions,
and they also wanted to
build those pipelines their
customers were asking for.
We came away from this with what
we felt at the time was a very
different take on the problem.
Traditionally,
this had been viewed as pushing
large amounts of data between
two very complex systems.
But it was really more than that,
especially as we talked to developers.
Because it came down to this
not only being a conduit for
pushing between large systems,
but as a data manipulation tool.
You know, it's almost more interesting
in some ways to take data,
you know, pull it out,
make some small changes to it,
and push it back in.
That was really powerful.
And also making things simple enough so
that not only could developers use it,
but also power users.
From this, we came up with the
Final Cut XML Interchange Format,
and we introduced it
with Final Cut Pro 4.
Obviously, from the name, it's XML,
which is nice because
it's somewhat readable.
It's pretty well self-documenting.
And, you know, at the end of the day,
it's text, really easy to parse,
and there are a lot of
libraries out there,
pretty much on every
platform for using this.
And when we designed this,
we took care to put the complete
contents of our project in this file.
Some previous data format efforts sort
of restricted things or black things out,
and we felt that was
really important not to do.
Because ultimately, this is a conduit for
interchange with everyone.
And also, again,
sort of opening up not only
to developers but power users,
making it really easy to look for things.
Here's a small snippet of XML.
And, you know, especially seeing XML,
it's pretty logical.
You've got the header
information up there.
We've got a clip element and
really the critical things here,
the name of it,
the duration and the frame rate,
even a timecode reference tying
this piece of media back to a
piece of videotape in this case.
Now I'd actually like to
ask a colleague of mine,
Helena, to come up here to talk to you
about some details of using the
Interchange Format with Final Cut Pro.
Good morning.
So you want to use
Final Cut Pro Interchange Format when
you want to push data to Final Cut,
you want to pull some data
that's in Final Cut from it,
or if you want a round trip,
so you want to modify
an existing project.
And I'm going to talk about handy
tools to do each of these workflows.
So to make it easier for you
guys to use the XML format,
we've added some-- we've
put in some handy features.
Only one of these is new.
So the first one I want to talk about
is the sparseness of the format.
So if you look at the XML that's
exported from Final Cut Pro,
it is really long.
This is one I exported that
has a sequence with an item
in it on the video track.
So it's got things like the UUID for
that object and updating behavior,
like if you were to
import that XML again,
what should we do with this sequence?
It's got, as Dave mentioned,
written timecode,
but it's also got all sorts of
default values for like scene
shot and take or comments.
So--and you notice that all of
these are actually empty XML nodes.
And these are all because we want to
give you all of the keys when we export.
We want to make sure you
know all of the data.
But when you send us XML,
you don't have to
specify all these things.
So this is actually
almost a full XML file.
There's just closing
out all these scopes,
the file, the clip item, the track,
et cetera.
So it didn't quite fit on the page,
but that's all there is to it.
So we have the name of the sequence.
This is actually the XML I sent
to Final Cut to create the same
project that I had turned around
and exported that I just showed you.
It's got the name.
It's got the rate of the item.
And then it specifies where that item is.
The track and the
location on the timeline.
And then it specifies the source file.
And that's it.
So you can really send us very directed
information and then get back all
of the data that you need from us.
Both are available to you.
The second thing I want to talk
about is the auto sequence settings.
So if you look at the XML export, sorry,
import dialog,
there's this default sequence setting.
And a lot of people have
complained to us that this is
non-intuitive or it's confusing,
people don't know what to do with it.
So we added the ability to
leverage the open timeline.
So in Final Cut Pro 6,
you can edit an item onto the timeline,
and the timeline's sequence settings
can be changed to match that first item.
That's exactly what's happening
here with this feature.
If you select Auto,
the first item in the timeline
modifies all the sequence
settings of that sequence.
So then you don't have to specify them.
And so the ability to do
that at XML import time is
new in Final Cut Pro 6.0.3.
Another thing I wanted to
talk about is inheritance.
So in the XML,
you have things like rate and duration
that are required all over the place.
You need to specify it on files.
You need to specify it in clips.
Here in this snippet of XML,
we have it on clips.
And it's also required on files,
but you'll notice it's not here.
And the reason is because
we can just inherit those.
As long as they're the same,
an enclosing scope can tell the
nesting scope what those values are.
And that's available on most nodes.
and it's in the documentation
which keys do and don't support it.
Another one that's similar but
different is the ID attributes.
So you'll often in the XML reference
a media file multiple times.
So the first time you reference it,
you want to specify the name,
the path URL, maybe track information.
You want to fully specify that
file to your best ability,
right?
So then you would specify
on it as well an ID.
Like you could say foo here.
And then the next time you refer to it,
you say, hey, I'm using foo again.
And then you don't have to specify any
of the contents of that node because we
already know that that's the same item.
In the XML that we export,
we will use this feature.
And so when inspecting,
you also want to look for that.
It's available on clips, clip items,
files, and sequences.
Another thing I wanted to talk about
was the update behaviors and UUIDs.
And those came in the XML version 3.
So when you look at the XML,
I mentioned this briefly before,
there's a UUID on each item.
And this is visible on
all project-level items.
So clips, sequences, and bins.
And the UUID lets us specify
this item is the same item.
So if you take this sequence
in the user interface,
copy it,
and you paste it in another project,
it will have the same UUID.
It's the same object.
If you export it and import it,
it's the same object.
And so then if you wanted
to modify it in some way,
you export this project,
and you just want to
change that one thing,
you can just specify an update behavior.
And the default one is add,
which just adds a new object.
And then I just want to
change that one thing.
You can just specify an update behavior.
And the default one is add,
which just adds a new object.
And then I just want to
change that one thing.
You can just specify an update behavior.
And the default one is add,
which just adds a new object.
and then actually disregards
the UID if there's already
something with that same UID.
But you can also then replace an item.
So you can have a sequence,
modify it in some way,
and then send it back,
and it will be the same item.
Other options available
are add if not found,
remove, replace.
And it's important to note that
this update behavior key is also
available in the metadata scopes,
but it works a little bit differently.
And I think Dave is going
to talk about that later.
And you want to make sure
not to mix this up with the
ID attributes I just talked about.
So the UUIDs here are a child
node of the sequence in this case.
But again, clips and bins also have them.
But it is not the ID attribute.
That ID attribute is
unique for the XML file,
but not globally unique,
where those UUIDs are unique identifiers
for that object at all times.
The last one I wanted to talk
about was import options.
And this gives you the ability
to skip the import dialogs.
So in the XML, the top level,
you could be saying import options,
and you could skip this dialog here.
And it includes all the
data that's in the dialog.
So the first option on the dialog
is the destination project.
It tells you whether you want a
new project and whether or not,
if you have an existing project,
what that project is.
And so here there's two different
XML keys to represent that.
There's also one for the
default sequence settings,
and you can specify that auto by
saying use first clip settings.
There's also this checkbox here,
and this checkbox is disabled if you are
using the auto because you're obviously
not using any data specified in the XML.
You're using that first clip item's data.
So in this case, it's true,
but if you wanted to use auto,
you would put false.
And there's also import options
for the following three.
Then there's also one more,
and this one is my favorite one,
actually.
So this one's display non-fatal errors.
And when you are shipping your products,
you don't want anyone
to see those errors.
So you would want to say
display non-fatal errors,
false.
But then if you're debugging,
you want to see exactly what's going on.
You want to make sure you
catch every last thing.
And I'm sure that you never have
to say display non-fatal errors,
false, when you ship.
But hypothetically,
were there any errors,
you'd want to hide them.
I should have explained that
you get a dialogue at the end
of XML import and it says,
"There were errors found.
Would you like to see them,
true or false?" And that's what
that Boolean hides that dialogue.
When you round trip Final Cut XML,
you would do something like
you would export the XML,
you'd modify it in some way,
and then you would send it back
into Final Cut with an import.
So let's look at kind of
how you would do that.
Let's take a snippet of XML.
It's very simple.
It's got a sequence of the
UID and update behavior.
And so you would specify the same UID,
and then you would change the
update behavior to replace.
And if you want to switch up media files,
it's very similar.
If we look at another snippet of XML,
we see, in this case,
it's a file that we want
to change the path URL on.
So you would change out that
path URL to the new path URL.
And then you also want to
modify the track details.
So here,
this is a-- I actually put a dot, dot,
dot.
This is like a six track audio,
one track of video file.
And you would want to take that out
if you're modifying it in some way.
So let's say maybe you're
changing it to a stereo file.
Because we've specified
those tracks there,
we're going to go
looking for those tracks.
But if you take that out,
we'll only look for the
tracks that you specify.
If you don't specify any,
we'll just look at the file.
So let's remove those.
And then so you would send us a snippet
that looked a little bit like this.
And make sure you watch out for the ID.
Remember I mentioned that the reference
is there and it's an empty node.
So if you were to go through
searching through the file without
looking carefully to see if you were
actually getting some child back,
like let's say, go get file/path URL.
And you get it and you get nothing
and you'll then have a null node.
So watch out for that one.
I've mentioned a little bit,
there's different versions
of Final Cut Pro's XML file.
And it's important to note that those
are not the same as different versions
of Final Cut Pro because the XML format,
as Dave mentioned,
came out in Final Cut Pro 4.1.
And the versioning of the
XML files has to do with the
features of the XML format.
So, for example, in version one,
you know, you have a basic project.
But in version two,
we changed the track layout of audio
files to match Final Cut Pro 5.0.
And then you also get multi-clips
and you also have the ability to
update and things like that in
the future and later versions,
sorry, in the later versions of the
Final Cut Pro XML format.
But you don't have those, say,
in version one.
So if you want to use version
one for maximum compatibility,
that's great.
But then you obviously
don't have the features.
So you have to have the features of
the latest version of the XML format.
They all are,
all versions of Final Cut can take
in all the older versions of the XML,
but not future versions
from when they were created.
So I just wanted to make a
point about user experience.
We give you the ability
to use import options,
and I'll talk a little bit
about AppleEvents in a second.
And you want to use these to give
your users a rich experience.
You don't want to have them use
the XML import and export dialogs,
if at all possible.
I think you want to skip those,
because it's a little
bit confusing for users.
Full documentation of the XML format
can be found on our website.
Now let's talk about some of the
ways you can automate Final Cut Pro.
So you can send
Final Cut Pro Apple events.
And you can send events
to read and write the XML,
to manage projects,
to perform a find operation.
And it's important to note this is a
find operation in the user interface,
not find operation that
gives you back data.
And those are all
documented on our website.
And I wanted to call out that the
Apple Events is not Apple script.
So you can tell us, give me XML,
and we'll run an XML export
and give you back the data.
But it doesn't give you the ability
to do everything in Final Cut because
that's a lot more complicated.
So if you want to import
XML into Final Cut,
you could either do a finder launch
to send that XML into Final Cut,
and we would open it.
And you would use the
four-character code KG,
and you would also use XML.
There's a space there.
And you could also do this
by sending us an Apple event.
And you would use the
I XML four-character
code to specify that.
And then you would also send us a
buffer of the XML you wanted to import.
Potentially,
you could also choose to send
it to a specific project,
in which case you'd need to send
us also that project file's FSRF,
I think.
And in the XML, you could use import
options to avoid dialogs.
So let's look at how you do that.
You have basic initialization
for all AppleEvents.
These are very similar.
You have all your parameters
and then you init everything.
And then at the bottom here,
you have specifying
Final Cut by saying key G.
And you would just say the four-character
code signature of any application
that you were sending the event to.
And then to do an import XML,
you would specify that I XML,
which I just mentioned, for import XML.
Then you would pass in the
buffer for the XML data.
Here it's called XMLD.
And the Final Cut Pro project
is optional,
which is why it's highlighted.
And that would be FCP for project.
And then you do the send.
It's very straightforward.
To do an export XML,
you would do EXML for export XML.
And you can pass in the project
again that you want to specify.
If you don't specify one,
you get the topmost projects XML.
And that will return that
XML buffer in the same parameter
name XMLD for XML data.
So to do that,
you would send the same thing,
only you'd modify the I XML to EXML.
And then you would not specify
an XML buffer because you're
going to actually get one back.
So let's remove and change this thing.
So this would be your send.
And then you need to go get that
XML data in the reply event.
So let's look at where that is.
So you have initialization
of the buffers,
essentially,
that you're going to pull that data into.
You need to get the size of
the thing from the reply event.
And then you just pull it in.
So it's very straightforward.
We have this also for opening projects,
which is OFCP, closing projects, CFCP,
find.
The find is a little bit more complicated
because it has more parameters,
some of which are enums,
but those are all in the headers,
which are in all the sample code,
and it's also documented on that.
There's an appendix for the
Apple events in the XML documentation.
It's all in there.
So when you're using the AppleEvents,
you want to be aware that you're
using-- I mentioned before the
UUIDs are not the same as the IDs.
And when specifying a specific
object in the AppleEvents,
because you can get the
XML of a specific object,
you want to specify it with UUIDs.
Just don't mix those up with IDs.
And it'd be great if you don't
block your application's event loop
waiting for a response from us.
Because we actually do exactly the
same thing we do in the user interface.
So if you export the XML for
a whole project that's huge,
it's going to take us some
time to get you that XML.
And in the meantime,
you're just sitting there
churning and waiting.
And we're like busily spitting out XML.
So that could take a while.
So it's best if you don't
block waiting for us.
and full documentation can
be found on the same site.
You can notice it's Chapter 9
of the XML documentation.
So,
Dave will tell you more about metadata.
Thanks.
Thank you, Helena.
Since Helena has gone through
Project Data and AppleEvents,
I want to spend some time on metadata.
This is something that we've been
spending some time on recently,
and it really enables
some powerful workflows.
Again, just to set some context,
so we're all coming from the same spot,
here's a very basic
definition of what it is.
Basically, we think of it as just a
collection of arbitrary data
attached to a file or a dataset.
It's something on the side.
It's useful with the data in the dataset,
but not required for it.
And you can actually modify that data,
ideally without touching
your sort of central core.
Probably the best example that
everyone's familiar with would be
ID3 tags in your MP3 or AAC files.
The central content of that
file is that compressed music.
That's the thing you
play back and you enjoy.
But really,
your enjoyment of it is enhanced by
being able to figure out what that file
is with more than just the file name,
things like the artist and the
album and even the year it came out.
And going back to our definition,
it's editable.
So if you get a file with a bad tag,
you can fix it.
And it's actually grown
over time with new fields.
Album artwork came in later
than the initial version,
for example.
Now, in the post-production space,
you might,
if you haven't thought about it before,
you might sort of ask yourself, well,
what could you use metadata for?
Well, there are a lot of things.
You know, at the most basic level,
you might take media files that
your software creates and put a tag
on there indicating you created it.
Maybe cache some information that
links back to some of your other files.
If you're, you know,
working with or building
an asset management system,
you know, store your database
IDs in that media file.
You know, so if that file itself
comes back in later,
you can track it back to your
database if other links went stale.
If you have a tool that does
interesting media analysis,
maybe it's very
computationally intensive,
you know,
cache that on the file as metadata,
right?
It's there.
It rides with the file.
You know, you do your analysis once.
Then you can use it for
rendering or other process later.
And another thing we've seen a lot
of growth in recently is actually
leveraging data from the production
process into post-production.
You know,
making use of new file-based cameras
that put all sorts of useful things
in the media they record to storage.
If we persist that as metadata in
the media files all the way through,
even until the very end,
we can pull that.
and sort of figure out
where things came from.
Now, QuickTime added support for
metadata back in version 7,
and the concept is basically
of metadata containers,
with containers available on the movie,
track, and media levels.
Each container is pretty much, you know,
sort of a key value list.
It's not really a one-to-one
key value mapping.
It's more sort of a one-to-end mapping.
So for a key,
you'll have one or more values.
It makes some interesting
semantics if you're trying to
add or replace items in there.
And of course,
each value has a definition of the data
type stored within it along with the
length and the actual value payload.
And the keys are actually
covered by a key space,
and that key space is
something you specify when
you work with that container.
The primary key space
that QuickTime uses,
uses reverse DNS strings.
And it's actually quite nice
because one of the challenges
with metadata has been sort of
preventing this collision problem.
You know, if we both have a value named,
if we both have a value for studio
and we just label it as studio,
then if I put a value in that file,
you put a value in that file and
we don't know where it came from,
it can be complicated if we have
tools dependent on that value.
So by using reverse DNS,
we can put things like our
organization name and our
product name in that labeling.
And it really helps,
especially if you think of media
files you've created or modified
sort of further down the production
pipe being analyzed by another tool
or a user that didn't necessarily
know where they came from.
You know,
and here's a very basic example,
very generic of just, you know,
an organization, a product, and a key.
Now the metadata containers
themselves are interesting
because unlike the sample data,
unlike your audio and video data,
it's actually stored
in the movie resource.
So of course it's going to go
wherever that resource goes.
So if I open a QuickTime file
with metadata in it and
I save a reference movie,
a copy of that metadata is going
to go along with that movie
resource in the reference movie.
Again,
sort of a couple attributes of this.
This data ends up being
loaded into memory,
which is nice because if
you're going to query it,
you don't have any additional
overhead like you would if you
were querying audio and video data.
But you want to be mindful of how
much data you're putting in here.
You don't want to bloat
the movie resource to,
you know,
200 megabytes just for data set.
If you have a set that large,
you might want to look at
another option for storing it.
Going into some API stuff really quick,
I've certainly heard from people
that the APIs seem a little opaque,
so we'll go through some basic usages.
It all starts with getting a container.
And you have the QtCopyMovieMetadata
or TrackMetadata or even MediaMetadata
APIs that give you back a metadata ref.
And this is actually
a ref count instance.
You have to release it when
you're done with metadata release.
The interesting point here is even though
all these APIs have copy in the name,
they're giving you a pointer or an
instance to the live container in data.
So it's not so much that here's a
complete standalone copy of my container,
it's here's an instance I can operate on,
just something confusing
from the API name.
Now once you have that container,
if you want to start getting at things,
you basically use the
QtMediaGetNextItem API.
When you get an item,
that item's going to have a reference
to the value and the key in it.
And the simplest thing is really
just to enumerate over them.
So in this snippet of code here,
we initialize an item ref
with the uninit constant,
and we're just basically iterating.
We've got the container,
the storage format, the key format,
and pretty much as long as that
comes back without an error,
we're getting all of the
items in that container.
Now, let's say I actually wanted to
find all the values associated
with a particular key.
We'd modify that call slightly.
You know, we have a string here with
a key we want to look for,
and you notice that we've
modified the call we made before
with that key value in the link.
So now we're going to iterate over
all the values attached to that key.
Now once we have that item ref,
if we want to get the value payload,
we turn to another API.
The Get Item Value API will
basically take the value payload
and copy it into a buffer.
Of course,
most of the time you're going to want
to dynamically allocate that buffer.
So you can actually make that call
with null in the out value pointer
parameter just to get the size
back in that final size argument.
Oh, one other thing I'll pop
back to really quick.
Once you have these items,
you can use the QuickTime Properties
API to get all sorts of
interesting information about it.
This includes not only
another way to get the size,
but also a way to get the data
type of that value as well.
Now let's say you want to
add something to a container.
Well,
you use the logically named Add Item API.
It's kind of long here,
but it's basically got
all the essentials.
It's got the container, the format,
the key, the key format, the key data,
the item and the type, and everything.
You're going to specify both the key
and value when you're using this API.
And of course,
what it's going to do with that
key is it's going to look it up,
and if there's already a key
and a value list existing,
it's just going to append
that value to the list.
And of course, we've iterated over,
we've added something.
What if you want to remove something?
Pretty much the simplest way
to do it is take that key and
basically call this API here,
which will remove everything
associated with that key.
Now,
what if I have a list of items attached
to a key and I only want to remove one?
You can actually use the iteration
code we saw before to figure out
which value you want to remove,
and then you can call the
remove item call to remove
the item from that container.
So now we'll do a little
demo really quickly.
And we've got an example
application we put together,
again, because we wanted to
help you use the APIs.
And it's kind of neat.
We use all the APIs we've talked
about to basically open up a file
to read all the metadata out of it.
We actually made a little core data
model to hold all this in memory
to help us bind to our Cocoa UI.
So you can actually see it
and step through it all.
Now, all the source code for
this is on the WWDC site.
It's on the Apple Applications page.
It's also linked to
this particular session.
So if we can switch the demo machine,
please.
Excellent.
So I'll go ahead and run this
metadata editor application.
And I'll open up just a file over here.
We'll see this file later.
And it's pretty simple.
This is actually a QtKit view over here
for just viewing the contents of my clip,
if I can click right here.
And as I twiddle down through this,
I'm basically walking through
all the containers in the file.
This particular file only has
one key associated with it.
Here are all the normal primitive
data types that QuickTime supports,
and of course,
the value payload over here.
Now,
I actually want to open up a slightly
more complicated file for you.
I mentioned earlier one of the
uses for metadata being to link
production and post-production.
So I'm going to take a funky
chicken movie over here,
which we actually captured
using a Panasonic camera.
I'm actually going to make this big
because there's so much data in here.
Now, this actually originated as
an MXF file on a flash card.
And there's all sorts of MXF metadata
here persisted as metadata to
support workflows where MXF might
be part of it using the UMIDs.
But there's all sorts of
interesting tidbits here,
including some of these fields that
could have potentially been set on
the camera by the person recording it.
And of course,
you see on the other tracks,
there's a slightly different
set of metadata as well.
Can we get back to slides, please?
All right, so we've talked about metadata
in the generic QuickTime context.
Now I want to focus on
how Final Cut Pro uses
QuickTime metadata in particular.
In 5.12,
we added support for QuickTime metadata,
building on all the support
we just talked about.
You know, basically arbitrary metadata
in QuickTime movies.
Currently,
you want to note that we're only handling
containers at the movie and track levels.
And we're also supporting that primary
QuickTime namespace that we talked about.
And of course,
all the standard data types.
Now Final Cut makes use of
metadata in a very specific way.
From the outside it might
seem a little strange,
but there's actually a method to this.
And it's really all about
maintaining a metadata cache.
Now the internal architecture
of Final Cut is such that
when you bring in a file,
any file, we actually create a
little file record for it.
And we cache all sorts of
interesting information on that,
which gets saved in the project.
Things like the number
of tracks and the format.
In fact, a lot of the things you actually
see in the XML are in that cache.
And metadata is really the same way.
Such that when we open that file
and we build that file record,
we'll read all the metadata out of
it and store it in that file record.
Now the useful thing about this
is Final Cut has the notion of
files going online and offline.
So I have a project with a file,
I quit and I save.
If that file goes away
and I relaunch Final Cut,
it's not sort of game over,
I can't open the project.
The file and whatever clips are there,
they're just marked as offline
because the media file isn't there.
Of course, the user can go point to it
or go and pull that file back
in their proper location.
But the nice thing is when that
offline file record is there,
all that metadata is
still present and active.
So for example,
if you're building an asset
management system and you had
database IDs stored as metadata.
If you open up a project and
you see the files offline,
you can pull that metadata,
go off to your server and pull
a new copy of that file down
and reattach it to that project.
Now, of course,
another interesting part of this is that
we have that cache in the file record,
but you want to note that the
movie is the authoritative source.
The copy in Final Cut really is a cache.
So if we sort of go back
to our model before,
where we make a project,
we bring in a file,
we have the metadata there.
If we save our project and quit,
and then in another application
modify the metadata in that file,
the next time Final Cut launches
and attaches that file,
it's going to see the
metadata has changed,
it's going to get rid of
its copy in the cache,
and read everything in from the file.
There's some interesting bits of
this you'll see in a few minutes,
but again,
just something to be aware of in
terms of how Final Cut uses metadata.
Now, of course,
because there's metadata in Final Cut,
there's also metadata in the XML format.
About the same time we added
metadata elements in XML,
again, they're basically under
the file elements,
because that's where
they exist in Final Cut.
You'll see them under File for
movie-level containers and under
Audio and Video for the tracks.
Here's a snippet of XML again,
and a file definition similar to
what Helena is showing us earlier.
And here's metadata definition.
And basically,
we're indicating it came from QuickTime.
We've got the reverse DNS string.
We've got a type.
And then we actually
have the value payload.
Now, of course,
XML import also has some processing
that you should be aware of,
and this relates to the caching
behavior we just talked about.
Normally during an XML import,
Final Cut will take that
XML file you give it,
we'll parse it and make sure
it's syntactically okay,
we'll go through and instantiate all the
Final Cut Pro objects within that file.
So, you know, build your sequence and
put everything together,
and then once that build is complete,
we'll actually go and reconnect
all the file references within.
So in that instantiation phase,
we'll create offline file
references like we discussed,
and at the very end,
we'll roll through and attach it
to all the media files on disk.
Now, during an XML import,
you'll want to note that
during that instantiate phase,
we take all those metadata elements,
and we put them effectively
in the metadata cache in
those offline file elements.
But of course, owing to the file being
the authoritative source,
when we do that reconnect phase,
anything that's defined in the XML by
default is going to get deleted in
favor of what's in the media file.
This means that if you want
to use the Final Cut Pro,
you'll want to use the Final Cut Pro.
But if you want to use XML to
actually populate metadata,
you have to take some special care.
Basically, and it's actually simple.
Helena talked about the update
behavior commands earlier,
for new clips and sequences.
We support a subset of them
in the metadata elements.
We basically support add and remove.
The idea being if I want
to add a metadata element,
I just put that update behavior in there.
And during the import processing,
during that instantiate phase,
what we'll do is not only will we
put those elements in the cache,
but we'll actually pull off a copy of it,
so that once the reconnect
phase is complete,
we'll sort of go through and
process those metadata transactions.
So after we process this piece,
we would actually add a new element
under that key to that file.
And of course, at that point,
it's in the file, it's in the cache,
everything's good.
So we'll pop to another demo here just to
try and illustrate a little bit of this.
We've talked about caching,
talked about exposing metadata in XML,
and using the commands on import
to actually modify metadata.
Can we switch to the demo machine,
please?
All right, so we'll go ahead and close
out of our application here.
We'll come to Final Cut where
I've got an empty project.
And I'll go back to my folder,
and I'm going to take one
of these puppets files here.
And I will drag it into Final Cut.
And if I go ahead and take this now,
and actually before I do this,
I'm going to just open this
up in the editor really quick.
So currently, the only element in this
file is this clip ID key.
So I'm going to drag this over to
Final Cut and export this to XML.
Okay, so now I've got an XML file.
I'll pop this thing open,
and if we search for metadata...
Here's the definition that
we were just looking at.
Again, that ID.
Now, I want to use the update behavior
command that I just mentioned to
add another element to this file.
So I'll pull a little snippet out here.
Actually, what I'm going to do is I'm
just going to replace this one.
I'm just going to add a new key to this.
So I'll save this.
And actually, I'm going to do one
more thing really quick.
The file will be attached to the
old clip as well as the new one,
but this will just make it
a little bit easier to see.
So if I double-click on this,
we'll import it.
And now if we go back to Finder,
we open this up in the editor,
we see we added our new ID here.
And of course, at this point,
if I were to export the
XML from that project,
I'd see both of those tags defined.
Can we go back to slides, please?
So some thoughts to
take home from metadata.
Reading metadata with XML is great.
It's simple.
It's quick.
Sort of the whole thing-- the whole
reason why we did XML in the first place.
But normally,
you're probably going to want to think
about adding metadata using QuickTime,
using all the APIs we discussed.
Certainly, we put the interface in
XML to modify metadata.
It was normally intended for power
users and development testing.
It works, but if you're doing
large volumes of things,
it's probably going to be more efficient
to do it yourself in your code.
And at that point,
you're doing it completely
separately from Final Cut,
so you don't have to have
Final Cut running necessarily
if you're on a server,
for example.
Just sort of like our
philosophy behind XML,
really your philosophy behind
metadata should be not only
storing useful data as metadata,
but making it readable.
Making it readable for you in the future,
for your users,
and your fellow developers.
Think about using strings and numbers,
discrete values instead of
large blocks of binary data.
Of course, if you do that,
you don't have to deal with
Indian or alignment issues.
And ultimately,
you make it easier for everyone.
If I pull it open in a general metadata
tool like the one I just showed you,
and you can actually see what it is.
Labeling metadata elements
is also part of this.
We talked about reverse
DNS being there and giving you
a large namespace to work with.
Use that.
Make sure everyone knows where
your data comes from and so there
really aren't any collisions.
Collisions are really bad.
Of course,
also want to think about scoping.
In one of the files I opened for you,
you noticed they had different data
on the movie and the track levels.
That's because there was data on the
track which was specific to that track.
Think about that with your data.
If you have data that's
specific only to the video,
probably want to put
it on the video track,
as opposed to things that
apply to the media package as
a whole putting it on the file.
So now sort of the last main section
we want to talk about is some tips for
what you can expect for media files
coming from Final Cut Pro and also
for you to create media files that
Final Cut and the rest of the studio
applications can use without any issues.
Now there are a number of ways, you know,
at the macro level to get
media in and out of Final Cut.
You know,
sort of the baseband interfaces,
you have a PCI card or
a FireWire interface,
you know, doing sort of linear
captures and linear outputs.
There's also a lot of file-based devices,
you know, cameras that record to
hard drive or flash drives,
where it's, you know,
it might be in a proprietary
wrapper or an MXF wrapper,
and they'll still be sort of almost a
logging process to bring that media in,
but it'll get re-wrapped
into a QuickTime container,
and of course all that
metadata persisted.
And then there's also file interchange.
This is probably going to be the most
interesting to everyone in this room,
where, you know,
effectively you're importing media
files you've created into Final Cut or
doing an export operation to get
a self-contained QuickTime movie
or even a reference movie out.
Now for file interchange,
we've been talking a lot about
QuickTime today because that's really
the primary format for our application.
There are other formats
like AFF and BroadcastWave,
for example, in the audio domain,
TIFF and Photoshop files for stills.
But really the prime format you're
going to want to think about,
especially with the richness
of metadata support,
is QuickTime.
And of course, you know,
it's a generic container,
basically audio, video, all of that.
We support numerous formats in it,
you know, everything from, you know,
DV or JPEG on up to uncompressed HD.
And of course, for you,
you've got the whole QuickTime API there
to help you create those files,
so you don't have to build a whole,
you know, file read-write runtime
to get that QuickTime.
Everything's there on the platform.
[Transcript missing]
Same thing goes for codecs.
You can do a lot of things with
different codecs in Final Cut Pro.
It really only supports
a particular subset.
And that's based on what's
relevant to the video industry,
what has predictable performance,
and really what our customers
have been asking for.
So you want to make sure that
any codecs you're working to put
media in are actually supported.
Another note here is that we
really don't support compressed
audio at this point in time.
Again, it comes back to squeezing the
most real-time playback performance
out of the machine and having
predictable characteristics in
terms of what we can pull and when.
Another interesting
bit is timecode tracks.
Timecode tracks are
actually really powerful.
Traditionally,
they were used to index video on
the computer back to a videotape.
But even if your media has
never touched videotape,
maybe it was recorded to flash,
it's still really handy because it gives
us a fixed time scale to refer to things.
So maybe if I have an
hour-long QuickTime movie,
I can put a timecode track in it
indicating sort of a start of timecode,
maybe at two hours, let's say.
If at some point I decide that I need
to clip some of that media out,
maybe I'm reducing my project down,
that timecode track gives Final Cut a
reference to figure out how to offset
and correlate things when you attach
those smaller files to your project.
Now we've talked about a number
of technologies today and want
to actually do another demo to
sort of tie them all together.
And this is based on somewhat
real workflow example,
things not only from the production
realm but all the way to broadcast,
where maybe I have a project where
I have media coming in and I've
got my show more or less done,
or maybe I just have something
built with placeholders.
And as those files come in,
I really want them to just
automatically be added,
so I don't have to have someone sitting
there watching a folder manually.
This application, again,
like the other tool I showed you,
the source code is up on the website,
linked to this session,
and it uses a lot of technology
we talked about today.
We use Apple Events to basically
programmatically drive Final Cut.
We use XML to push and pull
data in and out of Final Cut.
And we actually leverage
QuickTime metadata to identify
what we're going to do with
particular pieces of media.
Can we switch this demo machine, please?
OK, so we've got Final Cut running
in the background here.
And I'm going to run my little
movie assembler application.
And what I'm going to do
is in Movie Assembler,
you want to note,
I'm actually going to open up a project.
This is a Final Cut Pro project here.
And as I open it up,
you'll notice that Final Cut went
and opened up this project as well.
And if I look in the UI here,
it's pretty simple.
I've got, actually what it did is it told
Final Cut to open up the project,
it asked for an XML file of the project,
and then it parsed it.
It figured out a couple
of things from that.
It figured out the sequences in there,
since the way this tool works,
it's going to point at
a particular sequence.
It inferred a folder where
all the media was living.
It also inferred a default watch folder,
basically a place to watch
for new files to show up in.
And I've also got a little log here.
So now what I'm going to do,
since I see that Final Cut is
open in the background,
is I want to actually process
sort of one of these events,
right?
I want to basically have media come in.
Now, if I pop over to my sequence here,
this is just a little, you know,
silly little short film.
And it's pretty good,
but the shot sort of highlighted
in red here is wrong.
You know, I've got, let's see,
I've got my hero.
He comes into the office.
He's not very happy.
He sits at his desk, and then, well,
wait, he's walking again.
That's kind of not right.
So obviously that shot's wrong.
Obviously I got the wrong shot
from effects or color correction.
So I've already told him
I want a new file to come in,
but that's basically the fix
that I'm going to have happen.
So I'll come over here
to Movie Assembler,
and I'm just going to have it
start monitoring my watch folder.
You'll see in the log there.
And if I come back over
here to my folder...
The file didn't go back there.
All right, we'll fix that.
So here's our watch folder.
Here's our media folder.
And here's a new file that's
actually going to come in and
be processed by this tool.
Now, we actually opened this
file a few minutes ago,
and you noticed that there was actually
a piece of metadata with an ID in it.
That ID is what we're going to use
to figure out where it needs to go.
So if I drop this into my incoming
folder after just a second here,
you'll notice that Final Cut twiddles.
And if we come back to our log here,
it says it moved puppets
into our media folder.
So now if I come back
and open up my timeline,
And zoom out a little bit.
I'll see that I actually have--
The correct shot here,
our hero getting lots and lots of work,
lots of bugs to fix.
Okay.
And that's basically it.
Let's go back to slides, please.
Again, the sample code for all
that is up on the website.
There are a number of other
tools up there as well,
and we really hope that
helps you guys out.
It's really powerful stuff,
and the APIs can be a little interesting,
but it's pretty quick
to get the hang of it.
Now last year, about this time, well,
probably five minutes from now, honestly,
in Q&A, we got a number of questions
about a product we just announced.
This is a product
called Final Cut Server.
And for those of you who weren't
here last year or weren't at
NAB this year or last year,
you might ask yourself, what is it?
Well, it's a tool for workflow management
and also asset management
for Final Cut Studio users.
And basically,
it allows people to live as a work group,
share media,
have things almost like what we
talked about in Final Cut here happen
when media arrives in the system.
And of course,
now it's actually shipping as opposed
to last year when it had been announced.
Now what's interesting for you is that,
just like Final Cut,
this is actually a customizable tool.
This was intended to help tie workflows
together as well as enable them.
So it's very configurable.
It actually uses XML for
pushing and pulling data.
It actually makes very extensive
use of the metadata technology
we've been talking about here.
So you can populate media files,
metadata, and as they pull into server,
it'll go ahead and set up definitions
for them and you can see them.
You can also do things with defining
custom behaviors for that metadata.
Now we're not going to go
into much more detail here.
I wanted to mention it just
because it came up last year.
There's actually a session
coming up at 10:30.
We'll give you more information on that.
Okay, so to wrap up,
think about using all the tools we've
put together for you to not only tie
your applications with Final Cut,
but sort of tie all sorts of things into
workflow experiences for your customers.
XML, you know, it's not just a simple
import and export tool.
It's a manipulation tool,
depending on what you want to do.
And you can really use some
nice capabilities of XML along
with Apple Events to make things
really clean for your users.
You know, don't require them to do
manual imports and exports.
Just have your tool do the right thing.
And think about using metadata.
Think about putting
interesting breadcrumbs there,
not only for you, but for everyone else.
So Alan is unfortunately not here
today due to a family commitment.
But if you have questions,
you can certainly ping
him as well as one of us.
If he's not the right person,
he'll vector you the
right person as well.
We have all the documentation and
sample code up on the developer website.
Again,
a lot of this is linked to this session,
but even if you just go to
the normal developer website,
you'll see all of it there.
Other sessions,
actually there are two sessions coming
up next which you may find interesting.
In this room,
we're going to have a team up
here talking about the effects
plug API for Final Cut Studio.
And over in Russian Hill,
we're actually going to have a
session on all of the integration
technologies for Final Cut Server.
So again, the XML and the metadata.
We also have labs this afternoon.
If you have questions that
don't get covered during Q&A,
come on down.
We'll be there from 2:00
to sometime around 4:30,
I believe,
both for Server and Final Cut Pro.